Things the pair-aware pair might say:

"How do we test this?" This phrase brings up the awareness that functionality should be tested and brings the pair's mind to wonder how to test the functionality at hand. You could say this if your pair begins to implement functionality without expressing an intention to test. Sometimes the answer is "we really can't test this at a unit level" and you'll have to decide whether or not to press the point (or whether you agree that the functionality in question cannot reasonably be tested at the unit level) This is a good phrase to use when you are not sure what is going on, but know that code behavior is being introduced or changed. If the response to this is "We don't have to" or "Not right now", etc, you might want to say "why not?" in a nonthreatening way, possibly followed by "I'm confused, just keep going" 

"I'm confused, just keep going" is not ideal to say; this is best used in a situation when velocity is more important than knowledge sharing. After saying this, pay very close attention to what your pair does. Take hand-written notes if possible, both to aid your memory and to show attention. Keep in mind that taking notes may make some pairs nervous because they may worry that you are reporting on their behavior.

"So, is this a commit point?" This is a gentle way to gather more information about whether your pair thinks that all the tests are in a passing state, while also remining them that it is appropriate to commit as often as possible when the tests are green.

"What are you loooking for?" Works well when your pair appears to be flipping randomly through the code. Helps them express their ideas and clarify their own thinking. 


Phrases to respond to:

"You're talking too much; be quiet, I need to think." Perhaps respond with "I'm sorry, I'll be quieter. I'm trying to understand. Can I ask you more questions when this piece is done?" Often during pairing adjustment, one pair has trouble thinking while narrating or being narrated to. Silence is important. Try hard to give your pair some verbal space when they need it. They will probably stare into the air and frown for a while, then begin typing or talking again. 

"Don't touch anything!" This may be said in jest... or not. Consider responding with "I think better when I can navigate through the code" or "I'm not sure what I'm looking at; I'd like to click around a little?" In a more joking vein, consider saying "It's okay, we have version control; anything I break, you can just revert." (This last is less appropriate when you have many uncommitted changes or are using ClearCase.) When in this situation, be careful to not close code tabs if your pair tends to use them as mental bookmarks. 

"What is that for?" This may not be criticism, but rather honest confusion. While answering, consider continuing to hover your hands over mouse/keyboard to keep 'ownership' as you respond. (Do try to not ignore your pair- even if it is easier to reply after writing some more code, or if you feel that the code will be self-explanatory. It makes your pair feel respected/valued if you answer their questions promptly rather than saying "hang on a minute.")

"Hang on a minute" If your pair says this, try to stay quiet for at least a few seconds. 